---
title: 'Blog Post 1 - More About Me'
date: 2018-06-23
permalink: /posts/2018/06/more-about-me/
redirect_from: 
  - /posts/1
  - /posts/post-1
  - /posts/more-about-me
tags:
  - My-Background
  - About-Me
---

Hi, my name is Rodrigo Luzuriaga. I'm an IT technician with network and system administration experience. I study Computer Science at Mt. San Antonio College. My aspiration is to work doing what I love to do, programming.

### First IT experience
I started my IT career very early in life. I was 9 years old when I accidentally dropped my sister's laptop. I had no idea what I was doing, but I knew I had to fix it before my sister returned home from work. I took the laptop apart and tried different things until I realized that something looked out of place. That turned out to be the hard drive which had popped out of place. I put the laptop back together and it turned back on. I fixed it without my sister ever knowing that I dropped it. After this experience I knew I wanted to grow up and "work on computers".

### How I got to where I am in my career
I started volunteering at my church working on the audio/mixer board when I was 11 years old. I learned a lot about audio engineering and was also able to utilize the knowledge I had been gaining in computing. A very close friend noticed how much I wanted to learn about computing and started to show me what Linux was. From there it all went uphill. I started to do freelance work fixing computers and phones at first, and that was okay I was making some money from that.   

One day, I got a call from someone asking if I could try to fix some issues that their prior tech had left. I went into this office and quickly realized I was in way over my head. They had two servers, Windows 2012 and CentOS, that had been messed with. Many files had been corrupted or deleted, all the passwords had been changed, computers undomained, the whole network was down, and some more things I can't remember right now. I told the owner that I've never worked on anything like this and that I can give it a try but if I feel that I may be breaking things more that fixing them, I would let her know so that they can hire someone else.    
It took me two full days and A LOT of Google-ing but I was able to bring all the systems back up to how they were running before the incident. This obviously made me extremely happy because I was able to resolve the problem, but also really upset because there was still so much to learn. After this incident I worked at this company for some years as their main tech/server admin/network admin, on-call whenever I was needed. By this time I had already been learning some programming and I was able to write a couple scripts to fix some issues on the Windows Server when they arrised.       

All of this happened before I even started college. After graduating from high school knowing exactly what I wanted to study in college, I registered at Mt. San Antonio College. Started taking computer classes and was learning a lot. One of the semesters I was taking a "Secure Web Servers" class in which I had to work in a team to create an e-commerce site using a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) stack. The group and I created the whole website with pure HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. We had the front-end and back-end working perfectly, integrated phpMyAdmin to help with the database. Then came the day of the final, it was a presentation of the site to the class. Up until then, the database was unsecure, it didn't have a password. I had the "great" idea of setting a password before presentations so that if the other students go into our site they don't have access to the database. Well that was a really bad idea because our whole cart system broke during our presentation. At that moment I asked the professor if he gives me 5 minutes to fix it while the rest of the group talks about the other areas of the site. I went back to my computer and ssh into the server we were using and tried to fix the issue. After noticing that going back to the database and setting the password to be blank (how it was before) didn't work, it took me 5 minutes to follow the path of authentication throught the PHP code and had to hard code the password into all the files that needed it. At the end of the presentation I went up to the professor and explained that if he wanted to take points off because the site was broken to take them off of my grade because it was my fault that it broke so to not make the grades of the other team members suffer. Instead of that, the professor asked for my resume.

Thanks to that same professor, I got a job as a student worked at the IT Help Desk at the school. There I learned a lot about the school system and how IT fits into it, I developed a program to help me work faster and better at the help desk, and after two years I applied for a permanent position in IT and got hired as a Computer Facilities Assistant, my current job.

To be continued...
